This project provides the visual complements to our articles on the comparison of the ideas and receptions between Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749-1832) and Augustin Pyramus de Candolle (1778-1841). For more about the near-by reading methodology and visualization methods of this project, or about the historical content of the project, please see the following articles:

McNutt, A., Kim, A., Elahi, S., Takahashi, Kazutaka.  [“Supporting Expert Close Analysis of Historical Scientific Writings: A Case Study for Near-by Reading.”](http://doi.org/10.1109/VIS4DH51463.2020.00005) 2020 IEEE 5th Workshop on Visualization for the Digital Humanities (VIS4DH): 1–6. (http://doi.org/10.1109/VIS4DH51463.2020.00005) 

Kim, A., McNutt, A. [“Goethe and Candolle: National forms of scientific writing?”](https://rdcu.be/cTvvR) Theory in Biosciences (2022). (https://rdcu.be/cTvvR) 

In the popular culture, the Romantic movement has long been characterized as mystical, philosophical, and excessively emotional, by nineteenth-century contemporaries and present scholars alike. In parallel, the scientific knowledge grounded in Romantic principles has often been described as an inferior maverick in the history of science. This project challenges such portrayal. Through the Romantic lens, diverse living forms were understood as reflections and manifestations of a greater, constantly evolving nature. This vision pushed beyond the simple analogies between ideas and reality, instead merging the two in multiple aspects of life from the knowledge of nature to the historical knowledge of nations. In this sense, Romanticism was truly a revolutionizing and productive moment in history. 

The larger subject, of which this particular project is a part, focuses on the blending of natural and national categories in nineteenth-century thought, through the case studies on the reception of Goethe’s morphology in French intellectual communities. Goethe was a renowned German poet who also put forward important biological concepts such as the Type. Employing and modifying the Kantian regulative ideas while prioritizing empirical experiences, Goethe’s morphology was representative of Romantic science. The study of Goethe’s reception in France—the long-time cultural and political rival of Germany, as well as the hub of European scientific knowledge at that time—not only reveals how Romantic science fared in one of the most scientifically advanced nations of the time, but also how biological and national conceptions interacted in the intellectual communities. 

History of the reception of Goethe’s Romantic morphology shows varying modes of blending biological and national categories in France across the nineteenth century. This particular project, with a focus on the first half of the century, is a comparative study of Goethe and Candolle, a Swiss botanist who actively participated in the French scientific community during this time. Despite their remarkably similar biological concepts such as the organic type and its morphology, Goethe and Candolle were considered to represent the antithetical German and French schools, and thus, experienced very different receptions in France. Goethe’s scientific work was largely characterized as pantheistic, mystical, and philosophical—the “German style” as the antithesis of its French counterpart—while Candolle’s work was deemed a paragon of French Classical science. Such evaluations have persisted beyond their time. To test these characterizations of scientific styles based on national categories, this project experiments with computer scientific and visualization methods to analyze the actual forms and structures of Goethe’s and Candolle’s texts. We conclude that the source of their differences is located in the varying interactions among the building blocks of their texts, rather than in the purported national differences. To see the details of the building blocks (what we call the “thought components”) and their interactions, please navigate through other links provided on this website. 
