Please see the following article for more details on the methodology of this project:

McNutt, A., Kim, A., Elahi, S., Takahashi, Kazutaka.  [“Supporting Expert Close Analysis of Historical Scientific Writings: A Case Study for Near-by Reading.”](http://doi.org/10.1109/VIS4DH51463.2020.00005) 2020 IEEE 5th Workshop on Visualization for the Digital Humanities (VIS4DH): 1–6. (http://doi.org/10.1109/VIS4DH51463.2020.00005)

This project is composed of three sets of comparisons, each set comparing Goethe’s text (Metamorphosis of Plants) to one of the three selected botanical texts by Candolle (Essay on the Medical Properties of Plants, Elementary Essay on Botanical Geography, and Organography of Plants.) For more information on these texts, please visit [“Texts”](#/texts) page. 

What kind of thoughts—whether they be descriptive, speculative, methodological, philosophical, Romantic, Classical, etc.—are present in each text, and in what ratios? How does each kind of thought, or each “thought-component,” interact with other kinds? What can these findings tell about the character of each text? Does this characterization neatly correspond to the commonly held, national assumptions about each text?

We have taken the following steps to analyze and visualize the nature of each text:

Every sentence in a given text is tagged with one or more of the “thought-component” categories. Please visit the [“Categories Key & Example Sentences”](#/examples) section to see all 17 categories, with example sentences from Goethe’s and Candolle’s texts that are tagged with each category. In the visuals, each thought-component category is represented by a colored block.
*To verify replicability of the tagging process, we asked two of our colleagues to tag sample paragraphs using our system. 
Once every sentence of the text is tagged with thought-component categories, then these categories are ranked from those that occupy the most space of the text to those occupying the least space. Please see the [TiBi article](https://rdcu.be/cTvvR) for a comprehensive table, which shows the overall rankings of the categories for all four texts.
After the tagging process, it is possible to represent each botanical text visually: each sentence is simply converted to a string of color blocks, which represent different thought-component categories. The whole text then becomes a large collection of color blocks (choose the “Waffle” mode of visualization in “Tools for Text Visualization and Comparison” section.) By placing side by side a collection of color blocks representing Goethe’s text and another collection representing each of Candolle’s texts, one will easily understand which are dominant colors that build each text. This is the first-level interactive visuals, which are at the top of each visuals page in [“Tools”](#/vis) section.
Beyond understanding which thought-component categories are most and least used to form a botanical text, we further examine which categories tend to be tagged together—or, which pairs or triples of categories tend to work together when defining each sentence. The outcomes are again visualized, which are the second-level interactive visuals, and they are presented below the first-level visuals. 
